# Movie Recommender
**Author: Luke Barbier**

## Summary
This program analyzes data provided from MovieLens.com. The free public data contains over 2 million ratings from over 138,000 users. A graph exists where each movie is a node, connected to other nodes with the edges being weighted by the number of users who gave both movies a 5 star rating. The program will be able to recommend movies given a user of the program's interests. When a user of the program specifies their favorite movie, the program will find that movie in the graph and search the edges for the adjacent node with number of mutual 5 star raters. It will therefore be able to recommend movies based on the fact that people have preferences for genres and similarities between movies. Data structures used in this program are graph (MovieGraph) and an array (userOtherVertices).

## How to Run
- $ chmod +x MakeRatings.sh
- $ ./MakeRatings.sh
- $ g++ main.cpp graph.cpp graph.hpp -o Recommend
- $ ./Recommend

The shell script was written for user convenience in creating one file that had to be broken down due to limits on github file sizes. 

## Dependencies
None

## System Requirements
None

## Open issues/bugs
- Running in 'all' mode, where the program analyzes the entire Ratings.csv file (20 million ratings) (generated by the shell script) the program can take a considerable amount of time to make the movie graph, on my laptop, running on a single core, around 7min. The program does prompt the user for their wanted number of ratings on start up. 
